add doc&scripts for msmarco experiments on tpu (#100)
castorini/pygaggle: docs/experiments-monot5-tpu.md

# Neural Ranking Baselines on [MS MARCO Passage Retrieval](https://github.com/microsoft/MSMARCO-Passage-Ranking) - with TPU

This page contains instructions for running various monoT5 on the MS MARCO *passage* ranking task. We will run on the entire dev set. 

> We will focus on using monoT5-3B to rerank. Since it is difficult to such a large model run without TPU.

Reviewer: ""
```suggestion
We will focus on using monoT5-3B to rerank, since it is difficult to run such a large model without a TPU.
```

- monoT5-3B: Document Ranking with a Pretrained Sequence-to-Sequence Model [(Nogueira et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.06713.pdf)

> Note that there ars also separate documents to run MS MARCO ranking tasks on regular GPU. Please see [MS MARCO *document* ranking task](https://github.com/castorini/anserini/blob/master/docs/experiments-msmarco-doc.md), [MS MARCO *passage* ranking task - Subset](https://github.com/castorini/anserini/blob/master/docs/experiments-msmarco-passage-subset.md) and [MS MARCO *passage* ranking task - Entire](https://github.com/castorini/anserini/blob/master/docs/experiments-msmarco-passage-entrie.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that there are also separate documents to run MS MARCO ranking tasks on regular GPU. Please see [MS MARCO *document* ranking task](https://github.com/castorini/anserini/blob/master/docs/experiments-msmarco-doc.md), [MS MARCO *passage* ranking task - Subset](https://github.com/castorini/anserini/blob/master/docs/experiments-msmarco-passage-subset.md) and [MS MARCO *passage* ranking task - Entire](https://github.com/castorini/anserini/blob/master/docs/experiments-msmarco-passage-entrie.md).
```

Prior to running this, we suggest looking at our first-stage [BM25 ranking instructions](https://github.com/castorini/anserini/blob/master/docs/experiments-msmarco-passage.md).

> We rerank the BM25 run files that contain ~1000 passages per query using both monoBERT and monoT5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We rerank the BM25 run files that contain ~1000 passages per query using monoT5.
```

> monoBERT and monoT5 are pointwise rerankers. This means that each document is scored independently using either BERT or T5 respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
monoT5 is a pointwise reranker. This means that each document is scored independently using T5.
```

## Data Prepare

> Since we will use some scipts form Pygaggle to process data and evaluate evaluate results, we encourage you to install Pygaggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we will use some scripts form Pygaggle to process data and evaluate results, you need to install Pygaggle.
```

cd ../../
```
As a sanity check, we can evaluate the first-stage retrieved documents using the official MS MARCO evaluation script.

```
export DATA_DIR=data/msmarco_dev
python tools/eval/msmarco_eval.py ${DATA_DIR}/qrels.dev.small.tsv ${DATA_DIR}/run.dev.small.tsv
```

The output should be:

```
#####################
MRR @10: 0.18736452221767383
QueriesRanked: 6980
#####################
```

Then create query-doc pairs for monoT5 input format.
```
python -m pygaggle.data.create_msmarco_monot5_input --queries ${DATA_DIR}/queries.dev.small.tsv \
                                      --run ${DATA_DIR}/run.bm25.dev.small.tsv \
                                      --corpus ${DATA_DIR}/collection/collection.tsv \
                                      --t5_input ${DATA_DIR}/query_doc_pairs.dev.small.txt \
                                      --t5_input_ids ${DATA_DIR}/query_doc_pair_ids.dev.small.tsv
```
We will get two output files here:
- `query_doc_pairs.dev.small.txt`: The query-doc pairs for monoT5 input.
- `query_doc_pair_ids.dev.small.tsv`: The `query_id`s and `doc_id`s that mapping to the query-doc pairs. We will use this to map monoT5 output scores back to query-doc pairs.

> Note that there will be memory issue if the monoT5 input file is larger than 1,000,000 lines. Thus, we will split the input file into multiple files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that there will be a memory issue if the monoT5 input file is large. Thus, we will split the input file into multiple files.
```

```

> split --suffix-length 3 --numeric-suffixes --lines 999900 ${DATA_DIR}/query_doc_pairs.dev.small.txt ${DATA_DIR}/query_doc_pairs.dev.small.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
split --suffix-length 3 --numeric-suffixes --lines 1000000 ${DATA_DIR}/query_doc_pairs.dev.small.txt ${DATA_DIR}/query_doc_pairs.dev.small.txt
```

```

After the VM created, we can `ssh` to the machine.  
Then create a TPU.

```
curl -O https://dl.google.com/cloud_tpu/ctpu/latest/linux/ctpu && chmod a+x ctpu

./ctpu up --name=${TPU_NAME} --project=${PROJECT_NAME} --zone=europe-west4-a --tpu-size=v3-8 --tpu-only --tf-version=1.15 --noconf
```

## Setup environment on VM
Install required tools.
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install git gcc screen --yes
```

Install [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html).
```
curl -O https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash ./Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
```
When installation finished, do:
```
source ~/.bashrc
```

Then create a Python virtual environment for the experiments. 
```
conda init
conda create --y --name py36 python=3.6
conda activate py36
```
Install dependencies.
```
conda install -c conda-forge httptools jsonnet --yes
pip install tensorflow==1.15 tensorflow-text==1.15 t5[gcp]

> git clone https://github.com/ronakice/mesh.git

Reviewer: Can we use the one in `https://github.com/castorini/mesh`? Also, make sure it is working? Its been a long time since I used it..

Author: @kelvin-jiang made some change for the mesh to fit tf2.0 recently. I think it is safer for him to update this part later?

Reviewer 2: I made the same changes (that were in ronak's/castorini's fork) on top of the latest https://github.com/tensorflow/mesh.git, which allows us to use TF 2.0 like so:

```
conda init
conda create --y --name py36 python=3.6
conda activate py36
conda install -c conda-forge httptools jsonnet --yes
pip install tensorflow tensorflow-text t5[gcp]
git clone -b tf2 https://github.com/kelvin-jiang/mesh.git
pip install --editable mesh
./ctpu up --name=tpu-$URA-$EXPNO --project=$PROJECT --zone=europe-west4-a --tpu-size=v3-8 --tpu-only --noconf
```

I'm not sure if we've all adopted/used this, so I don't know if we should include it in these docs?

Reviewer: This is great! Could you please merge your code into https://github.com/castorini/mesh?

Reviewer 2: Don't have write access to repo, I opened a PR instead! Let me know when it's merged (or if you have any concerns) and I can try running with it once.

Reviewer: Awesome, thanks! @MXueguang, could you please update the instructions to point to the castorini repo?

Author: @rodrigonogueira4 do we still keep tf1.15 for now or change to tf2.0

Author: @kelvin-jiang , I am getting this error by using the new mesh, Have you seen this error before?
```
    return fn(*new_args, **new_kwargs)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/mesh/mesh_tensorflow/transformer/utils.py", line 1205, in decode_from_file
    estimator, input_fn, vocabulary, checkpoint_path=checkpoint_path)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/gin/config.py", line 1078, in gin_wrapper
    utils.augment_exception_message_and_reraise(e, err_str)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/gin/utils.py", line 49, in augment_exception_message_and_reraise
    six.raise_from(proxy.with_traceback(exception.__traceback__), None)
  File "<string>", line 3, in raise_from
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/gin/config.py", line 1055, in gin_wrapper
    return fn(*new_args, **new_kwargs)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/mesh/mesh_tensorflow/transformer/utils.py", line 1088, in decode
    for i, result in enumerate(result_iter):
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/tpu_estimator.py", line 3132, in predict
    rendezvous.raise_errors()
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/error_handling.py", line 150, in raise_errors
    six.reraise(typ, value, traceback)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/six.py", line 703, in reraise
    raise value
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/tpu_estimator.py", line 3126, in predict
    yield_single_examples=yield_single_examples):
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/estimator.py", line 613, in predict
    self.config)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/tpu_estimator.py", line 2921, in _call_model_fn
    config)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/estimator.py", line 1163, in _call_model_fn
    model_fn_results = self._model_fn(features=features, **kwargs)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/tpu_estimator.py", line 3201, in _model_fn
    input_holders.generate_infeed_enqueue_ops_and_dequeue_fn())
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/tpu_estimator.py", line 1465, in generate_infeed_enqueue_ops_and_dequeue_fn
    self._invoke_input_fn_and_record_structure())
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/tpu_estimator.py", line 1520, in _invoke_input_fn_and_record_structure
    num_hosts))
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/tpu_estimator.py", line 1126, in generate_broadcast_enqueue_ops_fn
    inputs = _Inputs.from_input_fn(input_fn(user_context))
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow_estimator/python/estimator/tpu/tpu_estimator.py", line 3055, in _input_fn
    return input_fn(**kwargs)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/mesh/mesh_tensorflow/transformer/utils.py", line 1196, in input_fn
    dataset = tf.data.Dataset.from_tensor_slices({"inputs": all_input_ids})
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/data/ops/dataset_ops.py", line 2421, in from_tensor_slices
    return DatasetV1Adapter(DatasetV2.from_tensor_slices(tensors))
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/data/ops/dataset_ops.py", line 682, in from_tensor_slices
    return TensorSliceDataset(tensors)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/data/ops/dataset_ops.py", line 3001, in __init__
    element = structure.normalize_element(element)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/data/util/structure.py", line 115, in normalize_element
    ops.convert_to_tensor(t, name="component_%d" % i))
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/framework/ops.py", line 1499, in convert_to_tensor
    ret = conversion_func(value, dtype=dtype, name=name, as_ref=as_ref)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/framework/tensor_conversion_registry.py", line 52, in _default_conversion_function
    return constant_op.constant(value, dtype, name=name)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/framework/constant_op.py", line 264, in constant
    allow_broadcast=True)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/framework/constant_op.py", line 286, in _constant_impl
    "Const", [], [dtype_value.type], attrs=attrs, name=name).outputs[0]
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/framework/ops.py", line 3485, in _create_op_internal
    op_def=op_def)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/framework/ops.py", line 1975, in __init__
    control_input_ops, op_def)
  File "/home/mxg123mxg456mxg/miniconda3/envs/py36/lib/python3.6/site-packages/tensorflow/python/framework/ops.py", line 1809, in _create_c_op
    serialized)
MemoryError: std::bad_alloc
  In call to configurable 'decode' (<function decode at 0x7f81a59d1268>)
  In call to configurable 'decode_from_file' (<function decode_from_file at 0x7f81a59d16a8>)
  In call to configurable 'infer_model' (<function infer_model at 0x7f81a59d4488>)
  In call to configurable 'run' (<function run at 0x7f81a59d4b70>)
```
